Instructions for building and installing bc-jce.jar

BUILDING bc-jce.jar FROM THE COMMAND-LINE

The original source can be found in BouncyCastle's cleanroom JCE, 
which is intended for use with Java 1.3. It is available for 
download as something like jce-jdk13-128.zip. 
Extract it to a working directory, or use the copy in the martus-bc-jce 
cvs module. From the directory above javax/ give these commands:

  javac -g javax/crypto/*java
  jar cvf bc-jce.jar javax

The result will be a bc-jce.jar.

When running Martus (or any Martus tool), this jar must be 
included in the "bootclasspath", so it will be used instead of 
the jce.jar that is included with the Sun JVM runtime. 

BUILDING bc-jce.jar FROM INSIDE ECLIPSE

Expand the 'martus' project in eclipse.
Right-click on the file build-meta.xml and select 'Run As -> Ant Build...'
On the 'Targets' tab, unselect al targets except 'jar-bc-jce'
Only check-into CVS the jar created in the 'martus-bc-jce' project


INCLUDING bc-jce.jar INSIDE ECLIPSE (for developers):

From eclipse, go to Window/Preferences... then under "Java" select 
Installed JREs, and choose to edit the current one. 
Uncheck "Use default system libraries", and then click Add External Jars. 
Navigate to the copy of bc-jce.jar that is in martus-bc-jce/ and choose it. 
Then, use the Up button to move it just above Sun's jce.jar.
Say OK to get out, and to do a full rebuild.

NOTE: If bc-jce.jar is removed, eclipse will remove the entire JRE. 
To get it back, go to Window/Preferences... Installed JREs, and choose 
Search, pointing to your Sun Java home directory. Then, follow the 
steps above to re-install your new bc-jce.jar.



INCLUDING bc-jce.jar IN COMMAND LINE (for the Martus installer):

When running java, you must specify an additional command line parameter 
to insert bc-jce.jar earlier in the classpath than Sun's jce.jar. 
This is done with the -Xbootclasspath option, like this:

  java -Xbootclasspath/a:c:/martus/bin/bc-jce.jar [remainder of cmd line]
  
