Notes about the new hudson/buildr build system for Martus

Builds will continue to be identified by an incrementing build number

Everything in martus-thirdparty will be pulled from a maven-style 
artifact repository so buildr will be happy,  
but the authoritative copy will be in version control, 
to make it easy for developers to inject new third-party libraries 
into the build machine without requiring ssh access.
The repository will be populated at build time.

Any third-party artifacts that are available via standard maven repos
should come from there, instead of from martus-thirtparty.
See www.mvnbrowser.com for a search engine to see what is there. 

There will be three top-level build scripts that a user would run:
1. Server
2. ClientJars
3. ClientRelease

There might also be:
4. MspaClientJars
5. MspaClientRelease

The two "Release" scripts would only be run by humans, as they 
would create signed jars. The others would be run by hudson.

The scripts that require signing jars would expect the 
password-protected signing key file to be present at a specific 
location when the script is run, and as soon as possible, 
it will 'wipe' the file. (The file will be copied in from a
secure workstation just prior to the build). 

ClientJars would also build Meta so it can run all the tests.

ClientRelease would build and sign bc-jce, would build and 
sign all the jars and language packs (from scratch, 
not from an earlier build of ClientJars), 
and would build all the artifacts including 
Windows installer, Mac DMG, Linux zip, source zip, ISO, 
and multipart.


Each of the following will become its own buildr project 
(source code sub-projects indicated with nested -)
- martus-thirdparty
	(no single artifact, so might be a rakefile instead of buildr)
	it will just install all the third-party jars to the artifact repo
	
- martus-bc-jce
	bc-jce.jar
- martus-utils
	martus-utils.jar
- martus-common
	martus-common.jar
- martus-jar-verifier
	[[NOT NEEDED??]]

- martus-server-jar
	martus-server.jar
	- martus-amplifier
- martus-server-source
	martus-server-source.zip
- martus-server
	martus-server.zip

- martus-swing
	martus-swing.jar
- martus-client
	martus.jar
	- martus-js-xml-generator
	- martus-logi
	- martus-hrdag
	- martus-clientside
- martus-client-windows
	martus-setup.exe
- martus-client-mac
	martus-mac.zip (martus.dmg)
- martus-client-linux
	martus-linux.zip
- martus-client-source
	martus-client-source.zip
- martus-client-iso
	- martus-client.iso
- martus-client-multipart
	- martus-client-windows-multipart.zip

- martus-mlp-xxx (several of these)
	martus-xxx.jar
- martus-mspa-client
	martus-mspa-client.zip
	- martus-clientside
- martus-meta
	martus-meta.jar

	
After each artifact is built, it will be pushed to an artifact repo on the build machine.
That artifact repo must be backed up on a regular basis.

Internally, this one master buildr project will contain several sub-projects.
It will do a checkout of each sub, and run its buildr, 
which will install the sub-project artifact into the repo.



Each hudson build project will have two variations:
1. One that builds automatically
	environment "production"
	ENV['VERSION']='SNAPSHOT'
2. One that is run manually
	environment "production"
	ENV['VERSION'] not set

If VERSION is set, it will replace the version number 
that would normally be appended to the artifact name.
If it is not set, then the build will fail if that artifact already exists.
I think we can use File.exists(locate(spec)) to check


As of 2010-07-23, to run the script, you must have JAVA_HOME set, 
and then run something like:
 buildr clean checkout martus-client:package test=no
