How to Create Martus OnLine Help

You must use MS Word. The Open Office Word Processor will not work, nor will Abiword.

NOTE: This initial step can be performed by anyone
Start with the Word doc of the 'Martus User Guide.doc' for the language you want to create the online help for.
Save the file as a UTF8 Text file.

NOTE: The rest of this should be performed by a developer

Open the UTF8 text file in MS Word.
Copy the Martus Version # info to the clipboard (Martus' Software User Guide Version x.x)
Paste this text at the start of the main body of the document, after the Table of contents.
Insert it right after (1. Introduction to the Martus' Software) in the body of the document,
and delete the newlines so the copyright is all on one line. 

Delete from the top of the document to the first line of the Table of Contents 
(delete up to and including 'TABLE OF CONTENTS' and the blank lines that follow).

Next, go to the end of the document and remove the trailing footer left behind.

Now save the document, making sure it is still in UTF8.

Copy this document to martus-client/help-xx.txt 
(where xx is the language code of the help file, using -en for English)
NOTE: Do not copy it over MartusHelp-xx.txt as that will be created later

Bring up Eclipse and open 'org.martus.client.tools.BuildHelp'
If you have never run it before in this eclipse workspace, do so once 
to create an empty run configuration (Run/Run As.../Java Application)
Then, In the eclipse menu, choose Run/Run Configurations... and select BuildHelp 
Go to the Arguments tab, and in the command line arguments field 
enter the two character language code for the help file you copied earlier.

Now run BuildHelp from within eclipse. 
This will look for the help-xx.txt file (where xx is the language code) 
in '.\martus-client\help-xx.txt'
Then the program will create MartusHelp-xx.txt and MartusHelpToc-xx.txt' in this same directory.
After this, it is best to refresh the martus-client tree in eclipse.

NOTE: If you get an error when you try to run the tool saying "Unsupported major.minor version 51.0" 
make sure your Windows/Preferences/Java/Compiler tab has the compliance level set to 1.6 (or less). 

If this is a built-in language, move these files to martus-client/source/org/martus/client/swingui/
(which you can do with eclipse Refactor/Move)
If this is a language pack language, put these new files in the Martus Language Pack mlpFiles directory 
(e.g. .\binary-martus\Releases\ClientMLPs\fr\mlpFiles) 

Delete the help-xx.txt files from '.\martus-client' once you are done.

Remember you need to Refresh you workspace for eclipse to recognize 
that you updated files within this project.
