Project:	MartusClient
Iteration:	8
Begin:		August 20
End:		August 31
Developers:	Kevin

Expectations:
-------
Workdays: 4
Velocity: 3.5 (lower due to AT generation)

Committed Stories:

1. Bug fixes [.5]
Add Sinhalese to the language dropdown. For date format, make it work on Marc's 
system (which doesn't have multiple locales), allow four-digit years, and arrange 
the dropdowns according to the date format.

2. Spanish version [.5]
Allow toggling between English and Spanish UI via the Localization dialog.

3. Second layer of action notifications [.5]
For potentially dangerous actions, have confirmation dialogs. (Marc to specify).

4. Initial System Setup [1]
The first time Martus is run on a computer, it will force the user to set up an 
account. No mouse gesture stuff is required. Just collect: username, password, 
source, organization, and contact info: email, web page, phone, mailing address.

5. Create true unique bulletin ids [.25]

6. Custom fields [1]
Allow additional string fields to be collected and displayed.


Stories that might be started:

7. Custom field types [1]
Allow custom fields to be specified as string, multiline, or date.

8. Edit contact info [1]
Update the organization information that was entered during initial setup.


Stories added during the iteration:
9. Research server speed [.25]

10. Full Spanish UI, rather than just the basic part [.25]

11. Wider red lines to indicate private portions [.25]



Results:
------
Workdays: 3.5
Velocity: 3.25

Pairing: Ivo 3 hrs, 

Story 1: Took half a day.

Story 2: Paired with Ivo for three hours. Took about three hours, plus a couple 
hours of necessary refactoring. 
There is some additional refactoring needed here, but I'm going to put it off 
until we understand the full scope of options a little better. There is probably 
another 1-2 hours of obscure UI elements left to translate.

Story 3: Created three English-only confirmation dialogs in a couple hours. They 
all follow the same pattern: First line is *what the user did* to cause this 
dialog, Second line is the *consequences* of what they are trying to do, and 
the Third line is a standard "are you sure" question. 

Story 9: About two hours, plus some time for meetings.

Story 10: Took nearly half a day, by the time it was all done.

Story 11: Ten minutes.

Story 4: Half a day to get the dialog working and saving data to disk. Note 
that password is saved in plaintext, rather than hashed (encrypted). I figured 
it would be best to wait and do that as part of our move to real encryption.



There are [STILL] two meta-tasks that we need to spend some time on to avoid 
slowing down the project:
1. Automated "acceptance tests" (CRITICAL)
2. Automate the process of generating release packages (would be nice)

Marc has approved my spending some time working on the acceptance tests, but I 
haven't yet started to do so.

-------
