Project:	MartusClient
Iteration:	14
Begin:		November 12
End:		November 23
Developers:	Kevin, Ivo, Dave

Expectations:
-------------
Workdays: 3.5
Velocity: 3

Committed Stories:

1. Icon work [1]
Private field distinction icons and UI work.

2. View and retrieve public bulletins from server [1]
Since the server currently thinks all bulletins are public (since 
we don't yet have crypto), this will allow all bulletins to be 
viewed and retrieved.

3. Server Policy for "approved" accounts [.5]
Allow a server to be configured to accept NOTHING, ANYTHING, or 
NO-ATTACHMENTS for "approved" accounts. Configuration, including the act 
of adding an account to the "approved" list, would be done through a 
simple config file.

4. Warning for rejected bulletins [.25]
Visual alert to inform when a sealed bulletin has been rejected by a server.

5. Upload reminder [.25]
Reminds user that time has passed since last uploaded bulletin, in case 
user has forgotten to upload, or server access is denied, but user does 
not know this.



Stories that might get done:

6. Allow creation of custom fields [1]
Not sure if this will be done through UI or through a config 
file. Fields will be single-line strings and will appear 
near the bottom of the bulletin (probably above the 
"attachments")


Stories added during the iteration:



Results:
--------
Workdays: 3
Velocity: 2.75

Pairing: A few sessions with Ivo, and one session with Dave

Story 1: Two hours to get rough boxes around the "public" and "private" 
groups. Three hours to get icons and bold text. More work will be needed 
later, after we know what we want.

Story 2: Two hours with Ivo to create the basic dialog. Four more hours 
to get the server functionality working, and to enhance the dialog. Two 
more hours with Dave to refactor and clean up the tests.

Story 3 and 4: They were closely related, so I did them together. They 
took a few hours to complete.



Issues:
-------
I still haven't put much time into Acceptance Tests. My latest thinking is 
that it will be more productive to extend Unit Tests into the GUI than to 
work with a WinRunner-type testing tool. Recently this has not affected 
velocity as much, but it is still important for the long run.

-------
