Project:	MartusClient
Iteration:	7
Begin:		August 6
End:		August 17
Developers:	Kevin

Expectations:
-------
Workdays: 4
Velocity: 4.25

Committed Stories:

1. Discard bulletin [1]
Initially invoked with mouse right-click, which will move a bulletin to the Discarded 
Items folder. Discarding from "Discarded items" folder removes them from the system 
permanently. Bulletin Status will not change to "Deleted" at this point.

2. Save and Restore Drafts [1]
Make the "Save as Draft" button actually save the bulletin in a drafts folder. Allow 
the user to modify bulletins in the drafts folder by double-clicking. Status should 
reflect "Draft" vs. "Sent".

3. Create true, unique IDs [.5]
Give bulletins unique identification information

4. Store "Language" as a real field [.75]
Also, move it below Keep ALL Information Private (where it used to be).

5. Remove "Browse..." button from preview pane [.5]

6. Move "private" redline inside scrollbars [.5]

Stories that might be started:

7. Respect local date preferences [1]
Use local system settings to determine how dates are displayed and edited. This 
includes sequence (dmy vs mdy) of display and of the dropdowns in the bulletin 
create/edit dialog. It does not mean bringing up month names in a different 
language.

8. Initial System Setup [2]
The first time Martus is run on a computer, it will force the user to set up an 
account. [Marc will provide the list of required and optional fields that we want 
to collect at that point]. This will also use some mouse gesture mechanism to 
come up with a random seed for this account.


Results:
------
Workdays: 4
Velocity: 4.25

Paired with Richard for 3 hours.

Story 1 took less than a day, but handling orphans correctly made the task spill 
over a day by a few hours. Doing status changes would have made it take even longer. 
We (Marc) need to decide what "status" means from a user standpoint.

Story 2 triggered a major refactoring (simplification) of the way change 
notifications were being sent throughout the system. Richard paired for much of the 
refactoring, which helped. This refactoring took about half a day. Actually 
implementing drafts took about six hours.

Story 3: Did some research, and concluded that it's best to delay this story until 
Initial System Setup. Once we have a UID for the "account", then creating a UID for 
each bulletin created by that account becomes much easier.

Story 4: Took about two or three hours.

Story 5 took less than one hour.

Story 6 was postponed to a future iteration by Marc.

Story 7 turned out to be difficult because Java doesn't want to use the 
Windows system settings. So (because Marc was unavailable), I renamed the story to 
"Localization dialog to change display date format [1]". I'm not sure how to handle 
the dropdowns, so they are still hard-coded as d/m/y. This story took most of one 
day, and triggered some overdue refactoring which took the rest of that day.

Upon further reflection, I made a mistake by trying to leverage Java "locales" to 
solve the date formatting problem. The correct solution would have been to simply 
create our own list of date formats we want to support. This would have taken less 
time, and would have allowed easy switching of the M/D/Y dropdowns. It will probably 
take a couple hours to refactor to this solution, but it does not have to be done 
right away.


There are [STILL] two meta-tasks that we need to spend some time on to avoid 
slowing down the project:
1. Automated "acceptance tests" (CRITICAL)
2. Automate the process of generating release packages (would be nice)

Marc has approved my spending some time working on the acceptance tests, but I 
haven't yet started to do so.

-------
