Project:	MartusClient
Iteration:	10
Begin:		September 17
End:		September 28
Developers:	Kevin

Expectations:
-------
Workdays: 4
Velocity: 4.5

Committed Stories:

1. Complete/cleanup Printing [.5]
Fix right truncation, work with multiple pages, use white background, 
prepopulate source in create bulletin.

2. Send New Bulletins to Server [1]
Timer, outbox/sealed, drag restrict, send, result dialog

3. Export/Import individual bulletins to files [1.5]

4. Retrieve Bulletins from Current Server [.5]

5. Search Functionality: And/or [1]

Stories that might be started:

6. Simple QBE Search [1]

7. Display month names [.5]
Always show month names instead of numbers


Stories added during the iteration:

8. Remove "Connect" toolbar button [0]

9. Drag bulletins out of Martus [.75]
Drag from the bulletin list, and drop on 
an external app (e.g. the desktop).

10. Drag bulletins into martus [.75]
Drag a file containing a Martus bulletin back into Martus, 
dropping it on a folder (or the folder list). The file must 
have previously been dragged out of Martus--no other file 
types will be supported at this point.

11. Automatic send to server on timer [.5]

Results:
------
Workdays: 4 (only counting coding)
Velocity: 2.25

Pairing: Charles 1 hr, 

Story 1: Took a bit over half a day. Print truncation was avoided (not 
solved) by switching from Courier to SansSerif (Arial) font for preview. 
As a bonus, I had to switch the preview checkbox and dropdown to print 
normal values, rather than disabled controls, which was a low-priority 
story way down on the list somewhere. Paired with Charles for an hour. 
Total: .75 days.

Story 2 (and 11): One hour to add a timer tick to check for an available 
server (NOTE: The http we are currently using does not have proxy support). 
Adding an Outbox folder, Sealed status, and drag restrictions took about 
2 hours. Another hour to add an error dialog for a failed drag. Two hours 
of refactoring the existing xmlrpc client/server code. Total: .75 days

Story 8: Five minutes.

Stories 9 and 10 were inserted into this iteration, instead of Story 3.

Story 9: Refactor existing drag code: 3 hrs. Research: 3 hrs. Get drag 
working as a MOVE: 3 hrs. Make it copy to the desktop or other apps, but 
move within Martus: 3 hrs. Total: 1.5 days

Story 10: Spent a full day, including several hours of refactoring the 
generic XML parsing code, a couple hours refactoring the drag code, and 
a couple hours of new code. Along the way, I pulled several methods out 
of the UI code so I could add unit tests for them. Total: 1 day, but this 
story was NOT COMPLETED.



There are [STILL] two meta-tasks that we need to spend some time on to avoid 
slowing down the project:
1. Automated "acceptance tests" (CRITICAL)
2. Automate the process of generating release packages (would be nice)

Marc has approved my spending some time working on the acceptance tests. I 
did more research into AWT.Robot, but it doesn't seem to be the answer. Now, 
I am considering 1) "Command-level" AT's, or 2) WinRunner or equivalent.

-------
