Project:	MartusClient
Iteration:	11
Begin:		October 1
End:		October 12
Developers:	Kevin

Expectations:
-------------
Workdays: 4
Velocity: 3.5

Committed Stories:

1. <Finish> Drag bulletins into martus [.5 remaining]
Drag a file containing a Martus bulletin back into Martus, 
dropping it on a folder (or the folder list). The file must 
have previously been dragged out of Martus--no other file 
types will be supported at this point. (Also, use better 
filenames when dragging bulletins out of Martus).

2. Search Functionality: And/or [1]

3. Extract strings for easy translation [.5]

4. Research New Bulletin Storage [1]

Stories that might get done:

5. Implement new Bulletin Storage Format [3]

Stories added during the iteration:


Results:
--------
Workdays: 4
Velocity: 4 (approx)

Pairing: One hour design discussion with Charles

Story 1: Took four hours, as expected. Total: .5 days

Story 2: Only took four hours. Another one hour to recognize Spanish 
versions of "and" and "or" ("y" and "o"). Total: .5+ days

Story 3: Two hours extracting Spanish to a UTF-8 text file (Martus-es.mtf). 
3 hours adding a utility to export a merged mtf with placeholder tags 
for any language. Got updated Spanish translations from Ivo. Total: .5+ days

Story 4: Three hours researching alternatives to BDB/DB3 (object databases, 
XML persistance libraries, relational databases). Two hours downloading and 
evaluating Berkeley DB. Two hours downloading and evaluating JISP. One hour 
creating a basic file system design with Charles. Total: 1 day

Story 5: Started to implement the new storage system. After a few false 
starts, it is going well. I have the basics working, but need to add 
key/value functionality, and integrate the whole thing into the existing 
BulletinStore class. Total: 1.5 days.



Issues:
-------
I still haven't put much time into Acceptance Tests. My latest thinking is 
that it will be more productive to extend Unit Tests into the GUI than to 
work with a WinRunner-type testing tool. Recently this has not affected 
velocity as much, but it is still important for the long run.

Creating release packages is also necessary, but perhaps it would make sense 
to postpone this until we start working on the install package itself.
-------
