Project:	MartusClient
Iteration:	15
Begin:		January 14
End:		January 25
Developers:	Kevin, Charles, Dave

Expectations:
-------------
Workdays: 5 coding days
Velocity: 5

---Committed Stories:

"Automatic Log-off" [.25]

"Maximize app on startup" [.25]

"Upload reminder" [.25]
Reminds user that time has passed since last uploaded bulletin, 
in case user has forgotten to upload, or server access is 
denied, but user does not realize this.
 
"Cut, paste and copy bulletins" [1]
Menu items.

"Make search result folder open automatically after a search" [.25]

"Mark 'sent' bulletin for 'resend'" [.25]
 
"Default to reasonable column widths in Bulletin List" [1]
Also maximize app as default.
 
"Set up in-house Martus Server" [.5]
 

---Stories that might get done:

---Stories added during the iteration:



Results:
--------
Workdays: 1 solo, 3 paired
Velocity: .75

Pairing: 

Story 1: "Automatic Log-off"
Done. After five minutes of inactivity (mouse/keyboard), the signin 
dialog will pop up over the main window. No actions can be performed 
until the correct username/password is entered. Cancelling will close 
the application. The signin dialog has some extra text to indicate 
that it came up due to inactivity, and that unsaved work will be lost 
if the user does not sign back in and save it.

Story 2: "Maximize app on startup"
This is hard (impossible) to do in Java. For now, the app comes up 
taking the entire screen width, and the screen height minus 50 pixels 
to allow for the task bar. When we upgrade to Java 1.4 (which is 
still in Beta), we may be able to do better.

Story 3: "Make search results folder open automatically"
After a search, the first found bulletin is now selected so it 
appears in the preview area.

Story 4: Didn't complete "Cut, paste, and copy bulletins"
Good progress, but not finished.


Issues:
-------
Security/crypto remains the largest bottleneck. The new pairing schedule 
(larger blocks of time, more concentrated) feels better, but did not 
result in a high velocity this week.

Once again, I didn't keep the Customer as involved as I should have. In 
two cases, I (we) worked on stories that were not actually at the top 
of the Customer's priority list. In one case, the story was desired by 
someone other than the customer. In the other case, our understanding 
of the story did not match that of the Customer. This is a known drawback 
of having an off-site Customer, so we need to compensate for it by having 
us (developers) initiate Customer contact more frequently.

-------
