Project:	MartusClient
Iteration:	13
Begin:		October 29
End:		November 9
Developers:	Kevin

Expectations:
-------------
Workdays: 5
Velocity: 5

Committed Stories:

1. Package Martus into a .jar file [1]

2. Retrieve bulletins from server [.5]
Be able to retrieve "all" bulletins from the "current" server.

3. Choose server [.5]
Enter a server name/number. Complain if it isn't available.

4. Display list of servers that we have uploaded to [.5]
List all servers that we have ever uploaded a bulletin to.
[[Marc has agreed to change this story to: Keep a log of all 
bulletin uploads, and display this log to the user in a 
scrolling plain text window]]

5. Actual signin [1]
Include a bypass for testing purposes

6. Allow creation of custom fields [1]
Not sure if this will be done through UI or through a config 
file. Fields will be single-line strings and will appear 
near the bottom of the bulletin (probably above the 
"attachments")

Stories that might get done:

?

Stories added during the iteration:

7. Fix English language dropdown [.25]



Results:
--------
Workdays: 4.5
Velocity: 3

Pairing: Charles 6 hrs, Ivo 4 hrs

Story 1: Took about half a day. Still need to figure out how to package 
the third-party jar files, and the .mtf files in a friendly way. 
Total: .5 days

Story 7: Took two hours. Total: .25 days

Story 2: Spent about 4 hours trying to figure out Java packages and .jar 
files before I realized I didn't need any of it! Spent another 2 hours 
refactoring the Server stuff. Another 2 hours implementing the "list 
bulletins" feature backend stuff. Charles and I spent 2 hours implementing 
downloadBulletin in the back end. Took 3 more hours to hook it into the UI.
Total: 1.5 days

Story 3: Took 4 hours, pairing with Charles and Ivo. Total: .5 days.

Story 4: Added ability to log uploads, but not to view the file. 
Total: .5 days

Story 5: Done. Total .5 days.

Story 6: Worked 2 hrs with Ivo, adding basic custom fields to the Bulletin 
class, and saving a list of custom fields in the config file. Total: .25 days




Issues:
-------
I still haven't put much time into Acceptance Tests. My latest thinking is 
that it will be more productive to extend Unit Tests into the GUI than to 
work with a WinRunner-type testing tool. Recently this has not affected 
velocity as much, but it is still important for the long run.

Creating release packages is also necessary, but perhaps it would make sense 
to postpone this until we start working on the install package itself.
-------
